---
date: 1900-01-01
---


Lifting is the "cheat mode" of type tetris

    fmap::(a->b) -> f a -> f b -- of course, with Functor f
    ($) ::(a->b) ->   a ->   b

Functor is a typeclass for function application over/through/past the `f` structure.

Functor has two laws: identity and composition:

    fmap id == id                   -- identity
    fmap (f.g) == fmap f . fmap g   -- composition

Functor preseves value under identity and structure, under fmap. what if we don't
want this? *just use a function*. Functor is about being able to reuse functions in
the presence of more structure and by oblivious to additional structor.

Functors should not work on:

    data Counting a = Heisenberg Int a
      deriving (Eq, Show)

    instance Functor Counting where
      fmap f (Heisenberg n a) = Heisenberg (n+1) (f a)

although it will still compile.

This doesn't work because `fmap (f.g) == fmap f . fmap g` doesn't work. the numerics
don't commute. instead, just stop messing with `n`.

    instance Functor Counting where
      fmap f (Heisenberg n a) = Heisenberg n (f a)

what if we want to do something that doesn't include lifting functions over
structure?

What if we wantto transform only the _structure_ and leave the _type argument_ to the
structure (or type structure) alone?

==> Natural Transformations

    nat:: (f->g) -> f a -> g a

So this isn't possible. f and g both have `*->*` so we use:

    {-# LANGUAGE RankNTypes #-}
    type Nat f g = forall a . f a -> g a

Functors in Haskell are unique for a given datatype. So for some:

    data Tuple a b = Tuple a b deriving (Show, Eq)
    -- and
    newtype Flip f a b = Flip (f b a) deriving (Show, Eq)

Even if we use this Flip to change the behavior of a `Functor Tuple`, it would be
interpreted as a completely different type.


