---
layout: post
title: "[CT] Seven Sketches in Compositionality - Intro"
---

Mostly transcribed from the Azimuth Forum MOOC:

---

Category theory was created in 1947 _to be applied_. Eilenberg and Mac Lane realized that three new concepts were required to solve the problem of connecting algebra to topology. Those concepts were category, functor, and natural transformation. They succeeded wonderfully and category theory started growing rapidly. It is now indispensible in the subject of "algebraic topology" which solves topology problems using algebra.

Later Grothendieck applied category theory to "algebraic geometry" and used it to prove the Weil Conjectures, groundbreaking conjectures relating number theory to geometry. In the process he invented many other fundamental concepts, like topoi (or toposes). Now Category Theory is a very large subject that take a long time to learn thoroughly.

The new buzzword on the block is "applied category theory" and it usually refers to applications outside pure mathematics. Category theory has been applied to computer science for a long time now, at least since the 1960s.

_Seven Sketches in Compositionality_ isn't a book applying Category Theory (I'll now start abbreviating this as "CT"), to computer science, however because CT is about understanding and orgaizing abstract data structures, everything in this book will be relevant in some way to computing. Several chapters will explicitly discuss databases, type systems, and other aspects of computer science.

In the 1990s, people started applying CT to quantum physics and quantum gravity. There are a lot of success stories here. If people succeed in building a [topological quantum computer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topological_quantum_computer), we'll see technology that can _only_ be understood by using category theory.

