---
layout: post
title: Syntactic Sugar and Operator Declarations in Scala
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">07 May 2015 - Redwood City, CA</p>

You can overload any operator you want in scala! Anything Unicode is fair game, but there are certain rules you have to follow. Because of this crazy flexibility you can include anything in backquotes to escape it. One simple example of the use of this: scala's `yeild` is a reserved word, but you might need to use Java's instead. Backquotes let you do this! For instance:

    Thread.`yield`()   // executes Java's yield

Syntactic sugar
===============

`a _identifier_ b` evaluates to `a._identifier_(b)`. That works for all unary and binary operators. For unary operators, the previous example would look simply like: `a _identifier_`, evaluating to `a._identifier()`.

What about prefix operators? `+`, `-`, `!`, `~` can all be used in front of certain classes. These are declared by prefixing the definition of the operator with `unary_` as methods of the class. So `-` applied to `number` would look like `-number` and be the same as:

    number.unary_-

Next is assignment operators. Anything going by the form of _operator_`=` also comes as syntactic sugar. A concrete example would be the `+=` operator. This one is a lot simpler - the following are all the same:

    a += b
    a = a + b

There are some hitches. `<=`, `>=`, and `!=` are not assignment operators. Also an operator prefixed with a `=` is never an assignment operator. This includes `==`, `===`, `=/=`, etc. Finally, if there is an `A` with an operator _operator_`=` then that method will be called directly.
