---
layout: post
title: Languages for 2015
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">31 December 2014 - Mountain View, CA</p>

Inspired by Richard Astbury's post, entitled [_Langages_][languages], I've come up with my own take on the state of languages for 2015 with respect to what I'd like to work on this year. As with Astbury, I'll add a disclaimer that this post is "opinionated, poorly researched, and really just the thoughts in my head." Going to start with the same list. Cheers!

### C#
No intention of going in this direction. I hear that it's actually not that bad, but at this point I think it's too tightly coupled with Microsoft and I have an allergy. To be fair, though, I do hear that Microsoft is doing cool things - of late.

`no`

### F#
Functional is way cooler, but I don't want to associate myself with the oil and gas industry.

`no`

### Javascript/iojs
What I know and breathe. I should probably contribute more to open source and stuff, but I really miss using a language with rich data constructs. I'm going on tour for 2015 and I get enough javascript in the office that I don't think I have the option of missing out on this. I'll have to check out iojs when I finish my tour.

`not in 2015`

### Julia
I like it so far. I'm afraid of missing features and it becoming too ruby-like. I think I'm going for more structure up-front to start with. Going to revisit the idea of building projects for this, but... perhaps next year.

`not in 2015`

### Java
So Greg, our DSL-designer and PhD in languages, has convinced me that Java is not as terrible as I believe it to be and that mostly the problem lies in the fact that wide-spread use allows for a lot of shit programmers get their hands on it. I am looking forward to being proven wrong, but I'll keep this only as required in the office... and perhaps build another Android app on the side to brush-up (Austin says that Davlik is a steaming pile of shit, though).

`a small project and work in 2015`

### Clojure
Sounds pretty grand for large-scale data projects, it's something we use in the office and by cousin swears by it for her job at Amazon - she's a former computational statistician and a resident data scientist at Amazon. Perhaps, but not really too invested since I've got some scala under my belt already and I want to continue down that road.

`not in 2015?`

### Scala
Already started on this, looks pretty sweet, I like that a number of projects have been built in this. I'd like to do a project here with Akka.

`yes - month-long projects`

### Ruby
A hot mess of features with too little structure, too little performance, and too little use outside of web servers. Sorry, but I've never been a fan.

`never`

### Common Lisp
So interesting! I mean it's definitely worth doing if you are going to start with emacs, which I have just kicked up. I like the idea... but perhaps not this year.

`till next time`

### Go
Go surprised me, I have no idea what happened, but all of a sudden it's big. Too soon to know if it's worth the time. Not in 2015 for me.

`not in 2015`

### Python
Python has shot itself in the foot with the 2.7/3.3 split. It's pretty much fucked I think and will lose a lot of audience to - hopefully - julia. It's so easy though... not really work learning since python is like reading a breezy book and I need something more to grow.

`no`

### Haskell
In progress. just starting off by doing all project euler problems in this - then all my data analysis and ML projects.

`yes`

### Erlang
Haskell seems too similar regarding end-goals. Perhaps if I hit another hardcore-functional kick.

`not in 2015`

### Elm
Only if the office allows. Other than that... too much work.

`not really...`

### PHP
So... apparently a lot of good things exist now that rectify PHP. I will still judge you if you want to use this language.

`no`

### C
Too much work, too little output. nope.

`no`

### C++
Perhaps. That's a big mountain to climb for a side project, the allure of having all the options you'd ever need with all the speed in the world. Perhaps.

`perhaps`

### Rust
There's a huge fascination in the community. I have too much on my plate at the moment. If i start looking into one of the 'maybe's above, I'll go over this in more detail.

`reevaluate later`

### Nim
Same as rust.

### D
Same as Rust and Nim.

### Rackett
Did some work in Rackett in 2014. Fun stuff but not for this year.

### SML
Worked though A programming class in SML. Again, fun! but as a one-time deal.

### Smalltalk
I'd love to research this as a case-study of the 'what happened to this language' line of thought. If I had the time!

## Conclusion

Continuing my experiments in Haskell, going to move on to Scala for the webserver support, then consider moving into C++, Nim, Rust or Julia. Work will still be Javascript and Java this year.

[languages]: https://richorama.github.io/blog/2014/12/31/languages
