---
layout: post
title: GTD\: Round 2, Week 1
---

Starting to document some workflow and do some review around my latest attempt at GTD with remember the milk. This might sound silly writing it out -- hopefully no one ever reads this.

##### Okay things that are working so far:

- all current "workflows" are encompassed (reading things in pocket, queuing up project wishlists, managing action items in multiple projects). Plus it's not super painful.
- I'm able to replicate "habits" just like in the Fabulous app (although I don't have some kind of guide to tell me about cute little embellishments), also it's way less ostentatious than Fabulous.
- It feels just like taskwarrior except the mobile app actually works -- which is surprisingly effective at getting me to remember things (but it's only week 1, so we'll see).
- I'm getting okay at putting things into RTM - it makes things quite easy. GTD is also useful because I don't need to look at things I put in until later.

##### Things want to work on next week:

- following my plan for the week. I think I constrain my tasks too much. I need to block them out better.
- remembering to do the weekly review. because I think it's important.

##### Stuff I'm thinking about:

My current layout of breaking things down into priority and time bound (<= 1h or >1h) makes me work on things that are at the top of this list (P1, <1h). I thought it would be nice, but I think it doesn't help me prioritize effectively. I was using this kind of auto sorting in Taskwarrior, and it's something the McKinsey folks trained us on, but I think it lacks context. I think the "Week+Day View" and reprioritizing each day (TP-style) will be better.


Also, I think GTD tagging is nice, but I may have gone over the top.






